in the last several videos we've talked
about different ways of implementing the
set and map abstract data types binary
search trees hash tables that sort of
thing in this video and in fact in this
lecture we're going to talk about a
totally new abstract data type you may
have never seen before known as a
priority queue and later we'll talk
about its implementations so what is the
priority queue you can think of it as
like a bag of stuff or a sack of things
and the you can put stuff in it it could
take stuff back out you can look inside
the bag but what's special is that this
sack it only lets you interact with the
smallest thing in any given time and
with that constraint we'll actually get
better performance than we would out of
some other more complex data structure
like a list or a set so maybe it's a
visual example of this sock I will just
kind of show off the operations you're
gonna have here this this add operation
here you can think of it as since you
take this pick some garbage up from this
table here's my zip card so I'll put
that in there I've added it okay I'm
gonna grab this kind bar present here
screwdriver that's probably enough right
okay so now I have three items in the
sack and so if I say what's the size it
should say three okay good now if I try
to get back the smallest thing I say hey
what's the smallest item I say get
smallest and it will return for me a
reference note dear where is that little
thing here we go it'll turn a reference
to the zip card now if I say remove
smallest it actually gives me the
reference the zip card is no longer on
the bag I call remove smallest again and
now I get find a bar and then finally
I'll do remove smallest using the power
jeez
okay screwdrivers and socks don't get
along well when you do remove smallest
and that's the last thing now the size
is zero so that's basically at a
priority queue is and it's really handy
for keeping track of the smallest
largest best whatever else thing so far
so let's imagine that you're part of
let's say this is an example of why this
might be useful the grand leaders
information compliance and happiness
enhancement team okay so you're deep in
the bowels of the earth
trying to make sure that your citizens
are not having any kind of unharmonious
conversations with each other using
texts so your job is each day you
prepare a report of the in messages that
seem most unharmonious using a
harmonious Mis comparator that takes two
strings and says which one seems less
harmonious so the naive approach it's
just to create a list of all messages
sent over the entire day all text
messages sort it using your comparator
and then return the in Mart messages
that are largest and so this is not
using a priority queue but the code
might look like is as follows so we have
an unharmonious texts method we give it
a sniffer which listens in on text
messages and the number of messages we
want for our report write this number so
one way to do it we create a list of all
messages we see all day we set up a
timer and this is just kind of
pseudocode I mean the exact details
don't matter here just the story so as
the timer is running we wait 24 hours
and as the day goes on we just add every
message that we can see sorry we add
every message that we see using our
sniffer and then after we've created
this big old list after 24 hours then we
will create a comparator which is for
comparing the harmonious nough
sub-strings we will then sort all of our
messages using this comparator and we'll
tell the sorting algorithm to do it in
the reverse order and again the exact
calls here don't make much they're not
important I don't expect you to know
what these mean exactly off the top your
head but the story is I'm then able to
sort all of them and then I'll return
the first end messages from the list
which will be the largest so this
approach will work fine but the problem
is that it might use a law actually it
will use quite a lot of memory it could
be well it will be theta M where n is
the number of texts and if a lot of
messages get sent in a given day that's
potentially quite a lot right so if n is
big and we're using theta and memory
we're using a lot of memory so now your
goal is to try and do this and theta m
time using a priority queue and how
that's going to work is you will create
a priority queue of unharmonious texts
let's say and we'll set it up like this
so this is just going to be some
specific implemented sorry it specific
implementation we'll talk about later
and I'll let you try and think about
what this code looks like now I don't
encourage you to sit there and write
Java code maybe just sit down with a
pencil and paper and write some
pseudocode and see if you could figure
out what the trick is here because it's
actually a pretty interesting puzzle and
I'll reveal it in a moment
okay so I will stop here and let you
check me out in the next video where
I'll spoil it